13th

Once when my grandma was cooking spaghetti sauce she stripped down to her slip, let her salt and pepper hair out of its bun and danced around the kitchen to a Buddy Holly song. I told my Mom but she didn't believe me.

12th

After my daughter's last chemo, a bumble bee
landed on her pink flip flop. She lifted her toes
and let it crawl freely. 

I'm not sure if she was willing it to sting her
or begging it not to. But it didn't matter,
at that moment she was the bee and it was her.

11th

Last night I dreamt my mother was on all fours lapping 
the dog¡¯s water so I sawed open her skull looking
for tumors, bulging blood vessels, for anything that would explain
her bizarre behavior. Then split skull and all, she sits up, smiles 
and says ¡°, I rolled myself out in front of you 
like a mini red carpet. You should have paid 
more attention to the trees, see how they reach?
That¡¯s where you¡¯ll find your answer."

10th

Last night I dreamt lightning struck a tree 
in my front yard, splitting the trunk in two.
In the center I saw a man in a white robe 
and dark dirty boots. He beckoned me to him 
and even though I took ten steps forward, 
the distance between us remained the same.

Suddenly, as if by magic, we were in a land
filled with sand, with rocks, with desert flowers. 
I was frightened, but the stranger, who reminded
me of my dead grandpa, took my hand and led
me to a flat stone where we stopped to watch a snake 
shed its skin. 

"What are you afraid of?" he asked. 
"Of learning to walk through walls," I answered.

9th

Mistakes are like leaves,
eventually they'll turn
brittle and the wind
will carry them off. 


8th

Would you have been happier if I were one of those zombie
moms who walk through streets in slow motion, always looking
straight ahead through milk-white eyes that can't see light.
One of those mothers led by their noses towards a spot

on the varsity team, Ivory League colleges, wealthy men.

I wonder about this because I know things about you, 
secret things.

I noticed those blue eyes roll at your 6th grade graduation
when I walked over to hug you, dressed in my pink
thrift shop dress and Walmart pumps.

Your sister told me about the dream that bothered you for weeks, 
the one where I was on all fours lapping the dog's water 
so you sawed open my skull to inspect my brain.

You were the first born son of a poor, uneducated, too young mother 
who never doubted you could be anything you wanted. And look at you now -- 
a neurosurgeon poking around in stranger's brains.

Your little sister didn't fare so well. By the time she came along,
I was one of those one of those mothers who sniffed out children's
dreams, devouring them, the remains splattered over 
their Neiman Marcus clothing and Manolo Blahniks.

I didn't believe, neither did she.

7th

You gave me the sun, the moon, the stars, this child
and then you left. I couldn't keep her, so with you as my witness, 
I brought her in the pool, kissed the top of her head, held her 
under water until she was still. 

But you saved her, she was reborn. 
When I lifted her head, she looked at me and smiled. 
It was a smile filled with dark and light, with wonder. 

But even you didn't want her so you sold her to the dark 
eyed man who placed her in a tank with others like her. 
The children knew they could disappear into warm water 
or melt through the glass wall, but they chose to stay.

The boy could not sit up but he moved his body 
to the sound of invisible music and the visitors 
swayed back and forth until their bodies were loose. 

The girl picked up jewel colored marbles 
with claw-like hands and offered them to guests 
who put their hands in the tank, accepting
marble after marble, eating until they were full.

And my daughter, in a plain gray dress, 
floated in the clear water, shooting light 
from her fingertips to strangers who couldn't get enough 
of the warm white stars she formed
from nothing. 